JUDY WOODRUFF: And from Georgia
to Washington's Pennsylvania
Avenue, the political stakes
are high this week, a
perfect time for Politics
Monday with Tamara Keith
of NPR and Amy Walter
of The Cook Political Report.
And welcome to you both.
A lot to talk about.
Amy, let's talk about that
6th District race in Georgia.
A lot of people are saying
it is a referendum of a
sort on the president.
How do you see it?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Yes, we're going to
read a lot into one race and
overinterpret one race.
But, obviously, because of the
amount of money that's been
spent on it and the fact that
the national media has
descended on it, we don't
really have a choice.
I think there are going to
be a couple of narratives
that come out of this.
If Democrats are able to win
here on Tuesday, the message
being sent is not just one about
Trump, but it is saying that
in Republican districts, even
districts that went Republican
slightly for Trump, are now
in danger for Republicans.
So this probably expands the
playing field for Democrats.
They're going to now try to get
and try to involve themselves
in many more districts
that are traditionally
Republican.
If a Republican wins,
it says, you know what?
This anger among Democrats,
the enthusiasm among Democrats,
while it is playing a national
role, it is not translating
into districts that still
have a slight Republican lean.
It means that Republican
voters haven't abandoned -
- not that they just didn't
abandon the president,
but they're not
abandoning congressional
Republicans at this point.
The only other person
that this is a referendum
on is Nancy Pelosi.
There have been more ads in
this district run against
Nancy Pelosi, Republican Karen
Handel, as well as other
groups, trying to make this
referendum from a liberal member
from San Francisco to paint
Jon Ossoff as out of touch
with the suburban district.
He's running as a moderate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: She pops
up, Nancy Pelosi...
AMY WALTER: In a lot of ads.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In
a lot of races.
So, Tamara, what do you see
are the factors at play here?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Well, so the president
tweeted this morning in support
of Karen Handel.
Then he did it again
this afternoon with a
series of tweets also
going after Jon Ossoff
for not living in the district,
which is a true thing.
Jon Ossoff doesn't
live in the district.
Karen Handel is not running
away from President Trump.
He held a fund-raiser with her.
Her campaign tweeted out a
fund-raising e-mail today.
The headline on it was, did you
see what Trump just tweeted?
So she's not separating
herself from the president.
She is running with
President Trump.
And so we will see what voters
in that district think of it.
It's a very narrow victory that
President Trump had in 2016
in that district, even though
it was designed to be
a safe Republican seat.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A lot
of interpreting going
to be going on tomorrow
night and into Wednesday
and maybe even later.
AMY WALTER: Oh, absolutely.
We love narratives.
Come on.
Political narratives, it's
what we live for, Judy.
We have got to keep doing this.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, speaking
of narratives, what was your
take, Amy, on what Jay Sekulow
had to say, the president's
attorney we talked
to a few minutes ago?
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: Yes.
What we heard in his interview
with you that seemed to be a
little bit different from what
we heard over the weekend
was the acknowledgment
that, while Jay Sekulow
said over the weekend
the president's not
being investigated, what
he acknowledged with
you was, we don't know
for sure that he's not being --
to the best of our knowledge,
I think, was the term that
he used, the president is
not being investigated.
But I think, as an overall take
on where we're going on Russia,
I don't think we're moving
very far.
It feels like we're kind of just
running in place constantly.
We know that the special counsel
is doing its investigation.
We know that the Senate
is doing an investigation.
It's unlikely that the Senate
is going to - - even the Senate
itself is going to be done
by the end of the year,
nonetheless what Robert
Mueller, counsel, is
going to have by then.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you read
this based on your reporting at
the White House and elsewhere
in this town?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, so, I have
been reporting on the legal
team that President Trump has
assembled, which includes
Jay Sekulow, who he is really
the face and the voice of the
legal team, but he is not
necessarily the person that will
be representing the president.
He is the public face because
what he has actually specialized
in is religious freedom
cases.
He's argued extensively...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Before
the Supreme Court.
TAMARA KEITH: ... before
Marc Kasowitz is another
attorney who is sort
of the lead attorney.
He doesn't have a
criminal law background.
He's basically Donald
Trump's attorney, and
had been for years.
But he's someone that the
president listens to, and that
is why he's a key part of the
team.
And then they just
brought on another
lawyer who has Washington
experience and has some
white-collar-type experience.
So the team is preparing
for the president to
be under investigation
by the special counsel
even if they aren't saying
that he is under investigation
by the special counsel, even
if they aren't saying that
he is under investigation
by the special counsel,
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to turn
both of you - - there is so
much to talk about, but I want
to turn you now, Amy, to the --
what's going on in the Senate
and the Congress over health
care reform.
We know the House passed
a reform bill to basically
undo the Obamacare.
It's been sitting in the
Senate week after week.
Republicans are working behind
closed doors to try to come
up with a version that will
be more acceptable to them.
Democrats are now in
revolt, as much as they
can be in the minority.
Where is that going?
AMY WALTER: Yes.
It sounds like what they want
to do is use a parliamentary
procedure to basically slow
business in the
Senate to a crawl.
It's not that they can make much
change to the bill itself, but
they want to put a spotlight
on the way that this bill is
being handled, just as you
pointed out, the fact that it's
being written behind doors, that
Democrats aren't part of the
process, that, quite frankly,
a whole bunch of Republican
senators have no idea
what's in the bill.
They also want to keep the
spotlight on the health care
bill because the House-passed
one is so unpopular.
It's not even
particularly popular
among Republicans voters.
So, the more attention that
Democrats can put on that,
as well as the way that it's
being -- the bill itself,
as well as the way the
bill is being handled,
they think politically
is a winner.
And, then, finally, they
are saying to their own
constituents, we are
trying to do something
about health care, but we're
not -- this is the only thing
that we can do, because we're
not in the majority.
The only thing we can
try to do is some of this
procedural maneuvering.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you
know about what's happening?
(LAUGHTER)
TAMARA KEITH: What I know about
what happening is that, in the
Senate, the votes that were
supposed to happen tonight
were actually pushed
off because of weather.
However, Chuck Schumer went
to the floor of the Senate
and did a -- sort of began the
process, tried to get unanimous
consent to demand that there
be a hearing on this bill.
And the majority leader,
Mitch McConnell, said
he objected to that.
They went around and
around and around.
Democrats don't have a
lot that they can do.
This is happening behind closed
doors, which means they can't
make an argument on substance
and policy, so they're making
an argument on procedure,
which is harder to make.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The majority
leader in the Senate, Mitch
McConnell, has said he wants
to get a vote on this
by the 1st of July.
AMY WALTER: That's right.
They really, really want
to get this behind them,
move through this process.
Remember, they can't move ahead
on the things they also want
to move ahead on, like tax
reform, until this is done.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And this
has been held up for,
as we say, a long time.
AMY WALTER: They wanted
to get it done in Easter
was the first deadline.
Now, there's nothing
unusual about that.
It took Democrats a long time
to get Obamacare through.
They wanted to get
it through in 2009.
It took them until 2010
to finally pass it.
The bigger question is, what
does that bill look like and
then, if implemented, how do
Americans -- how does
it affect Americans?
TAMARA KEITH: Because this
is one-sixth of the economy.
This is not small stuff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There
will be a lot of reaction
as the Republican
Senate version emerges,
which it hasn't done yet.
TAMARA KEITH: Right.
AMY WALTER: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara
Keith, Amy Walter, Politics
Monday, thank you both.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
AMY WALTER: You're welcome.